---
layout: post
title: RubyFuza 2015
exclude_comments: false
tagline: Conference notes from RubyFuza.
image:
categories: [Conferences]
tags: [ruby, conference, rubyfuza]
fullview: false
---

**The Joy of Programming**\\
Aaron Patterson - RedHat (Cloud management)

Discussed the joy of daily problem solving and how much fun that is.

--------
**Shattered dreams and broken promises**\\
Kenneth Kalmer

You should not do hope driven development, i.e. "I hope this makes the service faster." Measure everything and make decisions based on concrete data, not feelings.

--------
**Yet Another Technical Intimidation Talk**\\
Jackline Mutua

Getting into tech in Kenya in early 2000s - challenges of getting online access, how friendly the Ruby community was.

--------

**Extending Ruby by Harnessing other Languages**\\
Brendon McLean
Using other languages via Ruby - number crunching of GitHub stats, looking for outlier committers. Using some Lisp concepts to do this.

--------

**I drank the single page app Kool-Aid**\\
Che Nxusani

Mobile devices do not have as much power as desktops. Loading the 50 ~ 100kb of Javascript and then redering it is very slow for the first page. A better way is to load a static landing page, then only load the Javascript framework / SPA and switch over.

--------

**My journey in becoming a polyglot**\\
Theo Bohnmen

What you can learn from different languages, just beware of not learning anything properly. At least try one from each of the paradigms of: procedural, object oriented, functional and set-based.

--------

**How not to rewrite your library: Tips on stable APIs**\\
Loren Segal

Deprecation, doing it properly, 20year old linux app could still compile after only 2 changes. Even when you are gearing up for a major (SemVer) release, try to ensure that your API/methods stay backward compatible. Deprication doesn't mean you **will** remove the method, but rahter that there is something wrong with it and there is now a better way to do it.

--------

**The not so very short migration to Rails 3.0**\\
Grant Speelman

Why it took so long, things to avoid. Issues around maintaining multiple branches, not having enough test coverage.

---------

**Citizen Science with OpenROV**\\
Ray Hightower

Underwater, remote controlled sub, open source code + hardware.

---------

**Mentoring and being mentored - Tips & Tricks**\\
Steven McDonald

Young enough to know everything, if you mentor, make sure you leave your issues outside, it scares the mentees. I.e. if you come to work angry about something, chances are that the mentees will not ask you anything as they are scared of you.

---------

**Over 9000: JRuby in 2015**\\
Charles Nutter

Bringing concurreny to Ruby. C calls from Ruby. Massive speed improvements, but need to make sure the JRuby version of the gem exists.

---------

**CouchDB 2.0**\\
Garren Smith

Discussion around the new features.

---------

**Riveting Rails**\\
Chris Stefano

---------

**How to be an effective Freelancer by not learning from corporates**\\
Simon Stewart

Being corporate isn't about size, it is a mind-set.

---------

**Rebranding the 3R’s: reading, reasoning and robotics**\\
Lydia Abel

---------

**Diagnosing cancer with Machine Learning**\\
Simon van Dyk

How neural networks work.

---------

**Should we care about accessibility?**\\
Pawel Janiak

Sites need to be accessible to everyone - some countries have laws around this - US / Australia. Blind man sued Sydney over the Olympic site that wasn't accessible to him.

---------

**How I got started in Ruby & Rails after a RailsBridge Workshop**\\
Alyson La

The journey of discovering how to code that started with adding a favicon.

---------

**Fixing the future of programming**\\
Mandla Magagula

How to get young, under privileged kids into coding.

---------

**Sweet Ruby**\\
Marc Heiligers

---------

People
------
@eileencodes

Tools
-----
* benchmark/ips
* stackprof
 - cpu time vs wall time
 - cpu time doesn't pick up sleep time
 - if you are cpu bound, wall and cpu will look similar
 - 'delegate' is slow
 * New Relic / Skylight / librato
 * Benchmark gem
 * ActiveSupport::Notification (Pub/Sub)
InfluxDB / Grafana
JRuby
 - Truffle
 - Azul GC
 - VisualVM
 - JRuby --manage (turns on JMX)
 - Alienist (converts java heap dump into json)
CouchDB
 - PouchDB
 - Hood.ie
 - Faraday gem

RubyParser -> SeattleRB

Stuff
-----
S-Expressions\\
Lean Canvas\\
Eigenclasses\\
Yubikey\\
Log the version of the library / API that people use - can decide if to deprecate / break it.\\
Beautiful teams and beautiful dreams\\
Preferences -> Keyboard -> Shortcuts -> custom emoticons\\
IRC channel for a conference?\\
The Alliance (book, idea of "tour of duty")\\
How to fix schools.\\
Scanning barcodes to move a robot - build a custom roborally game.

Podcasts
--------
Ruby Rougues #186


Quotes
------
Even profilers have bugs - always measure and confirm.\\
"The most fertile source of insight is hindsight."\\
"What gets measured, gets managed." - Peter Drucker\\
"Stop gut-driven development." - Kenneth Kalmer\\
"I want someone to look at me like a Ruby developer looks at their code." - @IAmDeveloper\\
Philomath - A lover of learning.\\
The need to lean is inevitable focus on the process not just the object of it.\\
"Haskell comes with a free beard!"\\
"Before I knew it, I was injecting AJAX into all my documents..."\\
"What I learned from VB: don't make fun of the first graders." - Theo Bohnen\\
"I felt like a real programmer: my language had curly brackets." - Theo Bohnen\\
"If you aren't in over your head, how do yo know how tall you are?" - T.S. Eliot\\
Parento's Principle (80-20): "80% of the output comes from 20% of the input"\\
"We must live in harmony with out deprecated brothers and sisters." - Loren Segal\\
Urgency is not chaos / panic.


Links
-----
onebigfluke.com - why client-side rendering is wrong\\
Twitter ditched SPA - flamewar, the end is neigh\\
Chris Morris - You are not alone talk\\
www.githubdata.org\\

Companies
---------
Intellection
